Throughout this short semester of taking HIST 3814o Crafting Digital History I have faced many new experiences and challenges with my computer skills. Prior to this course the only media course that I have taken was a Media Arts class in high school where we learned to use various software programs such as Photoshop and Movie Maker. I have always felt comfortable using my computer for a variety of purposes such as using Microsoft Office and Adobe. My use of these programs did not come close to what was needed to do the exercises in this course. 

During this course I found myself often feeling confused and discouraged using programs that I never knew even existed let alone how to use them properly. I found the steps in the workbook easy to follow and when I ran into an issue, I found the videos helpful and often was able to find the mistake I made and fix the issue. I always felt as though I knew what to do in each step but did not always know what exactly it was accomplishing. This course had many “Ah-ha” moments that followed the exercises. A few times I was unable to fix the issue and posted in Slack often with a quick response from a classmate or Dr. Graham with an answer. 

The way that I felt during the course directly reflects the way I felt during the Capstone exercise. For this exercise I chose to do option 2, forking a previous assignment and adding to it. I redid the previous study using Google Trends to see how many Canadians are searching for information on Google about Residential Schools. The information on the number of searches that found went up to present day and I added a search about Orange Shirt Day as this is a recent (2013) addition to Canada’s way of reflecting on those who were impacted by these schools. 

I found this exercise very difficult to complete because I was not sure exactly what I was supposed to do. After talking with Dr. Graham and other classmates on Slack, it became a little bit clearer but not completely. I feel confident with the research that I found but am not completely confident in the way that I was to display it. I am still hoping that the way that I displayed the information that I gathered is correct. I feel as though this course forced me to seek out help from others when I do not normally. In other courses as a distance student the only options for seeking help is through email directly to the professor or a TA. This course offers the ability to seek help in a variety of ways by classmates, TA’s and Dr. Graham which I enjoyed but am unsure that I used it to its full potential as I am not used to having this option. I really enjoyed this course and all of the challenges that came along with it. 
